[singing in Japanese]
[dramatic music playing]
[narrator]
Tired of being treated
like a child
by the Nautilus crew,
Jean set about building
a new aircraft.
However, he discovered
that he may be mature,
but he still needs
the help of others
to accomplish his goals.
Jean's new craft worked
wonderfully
and he took Nadia
into the skies.
During their flight,
he promised
that he would grow up
to be her protector
and the one
who would take her to Africa.
Will they one day discover
the secret of Blue Water?
[dramatic music playing]
[waves crashing]
[beeping]
Captain, it seems
to be a British cargo ship.
They don't appear
to have noticed us yet, sir.
Maintain our present position
until it has gone.
-Aye, aye.
-[horn blaring]
They're leaving.
We're safe for the time being.
That's right.
It's been a long time since
we've been so close to land.
[engineer]
It certainly has.
I hope the landing party
finds something useful.
-[birds chirping]
-[indistinct chatter]
[man]
You missed a spot, ha ha.
[indistinct chatter]
[man] Captain, where do you
want me to put these?
[woman] Honey, honey,
you have to hold my hand.
[man] Captain?
[woman]
Honey, hold my hand.
Don't go away.
[indistinct chatter]
[man 1 sighs]
[man 1]
We don't get much news
about sea monsters these days.
And I have to wonder why.
[man 2]
I hear that the American fleet
finished off that blasted
menace once and for all.
[man 3]
Oh. Do you think that's true?
[man 2]
Yeah, I reckon it is.
They said it was
over 200 meters long.
[man 1]
That's one large haul.
The Americans sure
can pack a lot of power.
[man 4]
At least we can sail
the briny depths
once again in safety.
[man 2] While the scurvy
bugger has picked up pieces
like crabs and predators.
-Farewell to the sea monster.
-[man 1] Hear, hear.
[laughs]
The Nautilus is popular here.
Seems so.
Not a very good feeling.
No.
Oh.
[helmsman] Join us.
Did you find some leads?
I didn't find anything.
The Neo Atlanteans must have
gone completely undercover.
[helmsman]
As I expected.
This journal has the last
report I could find.
The seas have been delivered
from the dreaded savage.
[scoffs]
Try as I might,
there wasn't
any new information
to be found about
the Garfish sub
or the Neo Atlanteans.
Then they've stopped attacking
cargo ships
in favor of some
new fiendish agenda.
A construction of a new tower?
I doubt it.
They'll probably
attempt something
that has a better chance
of success.
But what could that be?
We were sent ashore
to find that out.
But what if we find nothing?
What will the captain say
if we come back empty-handed?
You should probably worry
more about Electra.
Hmm, well, we'd definitely be
in some serious trouble.
[all]
Hmm.
Here's my report, sir.
Mm-hmm.
The Nautilus' present position
is West 25, North 306.
Our depth is presently
96 meters
with the main
and auxiliary engines
operating smoothly
and food supplies
adequate for 20 days or more.
-However...
-Go on.
Sir, three rounds
of battle repairs
have left us short of
maintenance materials.
I strongly recommend
that we return to our base.
Mm-hmm.
We'll consider it
after the landing party
brings back its findings.
[Electra]
Yes, sir.
[Sanson]
So now,
we're apprentice engineers.
We're gonna get
our suits all dirty.
[Hanson]
Hmm.
[Sanson] We've certainly
been to a lot of places.
[Hanson]
Mm-hmm.
Europe must be far,
far away by now.
I wonder where we are
at this very moment.
I have no map and no compass,
so I have no idea.
I know.
From the stars that
we saw last night,
I'd say we're pretty far south.
South, eh?
I wonder how far south
the captain's sailing.
[buzzer buzzes]
[Nemo]
Attention, all hands.
We are setting course for
Antarctica to take on supplies.
[both]
We're going where?
Huh?
What on earth are these?
Arctic clothing.
Arctic clothes?
[Electra] Yes, it will protect
you from the extreme cold.
Hmm.
This won't do at all.
No one should have to wear
such dowdy clothes.
That they are.
I could never allow Captain
Nemo to see me
in something so inherently
unflattering.
-[growling]
-Mm-hmm.
What was that?
Uh-oh.
So why do we need
to dress for cold weather?
We are going to the South Pole.
We're going where?
[Sanson]
You've got to be kidding.
Whose idea was that?
Nemo has really lost it
this time.
His home port is there.
Ah-hah.
His home port?
What kind of a madman
builds a port
in a wasteland like that?
Why does he always
have to do things the hard way?
Can you tell me that?
Is the South Pole
really that terrible?
It's so detestable that
every captain in his right mind
steers clear of the place.
The wind has spiky teeth.
The ice fossilizes you.
And when you lament your
impending death,
your tears freeze
to your face.
It is no place
for civilized man.
It's really that bad?
Many courageous explorers
have tried to reach the Pole,
and they all have been
killed trying.
I don't care how
advanced the ship is.
They haven't built a ship
that could survive down there.
Jean, is this true?
Uh-huh. Huh?
I'm sure we'll be fine.
Oh, boy, huh.
The South Pole,
I can't wait.
We're so lucky.
The South Pole?
Yes.
You've been there before,
so what kind of a place is it?
Um...
Well, it's the place our base
is located.
Mm-hmm.
So what kind of a place is it?
How can I put this?
It's where the main base is.
[inhaling deeply]
[exhales]
The South Pole,
where the main base is?
It's where the main base is.
Our main base is there.
What, the South Pole?
Yes. What kind of
a place is it?
Let's see. It's where the
Nautilus' main base was built.
[groans]
-What's the matter?
-I don't know.
Why does everyone
say the same thing?
Well, I suppose
no one wants to ruin
the surprise in store for you.
Oh, I guess I'll just go ahead
and show you.
Yes.
Ah.
It's like magic.
Not quite, Nadia.
It's merely science.
[Jean]
This is amazing.
I wonder how it works,
a magic lantern?
[Electra]
The image is created
by an electronic brain
and then projected
using magnets and electricity.
Oh, what's an electronic brain?
To put it very simply,
it's a machine that can think.
I'll explain the details to
you later.
Would you like to see
the South Pole, Jean?
Sure.
That is Antarctica.
Oh, fantastic.
It shows the actual shoreline.
What's so great about that?
Since Antarctica
is completely covered with ice,
no one knows exactly
where the edge of the land is.
But this ship has a map
that details it precisely.
Incredible.
Explain to me how you drew it.
It wasn't necessary
since the information
was already in
the ship's databank.
-Then who put it there?
-[gasps]
Well, that is a--
A what?
A secret.
Aw, that's not fair.
And what does this mark mean?
[Electra] That's where
the base is located.
What? How can we possibly sail
to the middle of a continent?
-Must we walk?
-[gasps]
[laughs] The ship will
take us right to it.
Huh? But how can it?
That, too, is a--
A what?
A secret.
Oh, I should have known.
[they laugh]
You're such a dunce, Jean.
♪ The Secret Blue Water
[waves crashing]
[sonar] No targets sighted
within 20 kilometers.
[Electra]
No evidence of jamming devices.
[engineer]
Activating air compressor.
We are now entering
the Antarctic zone.
[dramatic music playing]
We should be arriving
very soon.
That's as long as the ship
doesn't hit an iceberg
and implode, of course.
-[metal thuds]
-Huh?
[gasps]
What are those noises?
We are encountering some
relatively small ice floes.
[dramatic music playing]
[helmsman]
Obstacle sighted dead ahead.
There are ice floes
about five meters in thickness.
-Captain?
-Compressed air status?
All cylinders
are full up to 48.
Two minutes to full status.
We'll submerge upon
completion.
Aye.
We finally make it
to the South Pole
and they tell us we can't
leave the ship.
Oh, well, at least we won't
catch a cold.
But I wanted to see it.
[buzzer buzzes]
[Electra] All hands,
prepare to submerge,
report to workstations.
[sighs]
I'm going up to the bridge.
[beeping]
Diving systems are nominal.
Ballast normal,
depth is 60 meters.
-[door opens]
-[gasps]
[laughs]
Large iceberg
between 11:00 and 2:00.
Thirty degrees to starboard.
Aye, aye, captain.
Wow, it's so big.
Heading maintained
at 80 meters.
[sonar]
This is odd.
The water temperature
is over seven degrees.
And look at the seabed.
[suspenseful music playing]
-[sonar] What the...
-[helmsman] What happened here?
[engineer]
This is terrible.
It's a graveyard
for the animals of the sea.
Run an analysis
of the water's composition.
Aye.
Magnetic field is unstable.
Carbon dioxide,
hydrogen sulfide,
and heavy metal ion content
is 200 times normal, sir.
Hmm, as I thought.
[explosion]
Oh, dear God.
Oh, dear.
I thought all the volcanoes
around here were dormant.
Mother Nature always hides
an ace up her sleeve.
And that's the truth.
Sir, orders.
Go around,
it's all that we can do.
Aye.
What was all that commotion?
We sailed past
an underwater volcano.
-Volcano?
-Mm-hmm.
There are volcanoes
under the sea?
Mm-hmm.
-Oh, my.
-Mm-hmm.
I'm starting to think
Sanson was right for once.
Current depth is 160 meters
and holding.
Unidentified object
approaching.
It's heading in
from 11:00, sir.
Relative approaching
speed is 60 knots.
[Electra]
That couldn't be the Garfish.
Ten seconds to identify it.
Aye, sir.
The Garfish could create
a magnetic response.
This doesn't.
Then, what could it be?
[engineer]
I have no idea.
[navigator]
What shall we do?
[Electra]
Captain Nemo.
Sound general quarters.
Aye. All hands,
report to general quarters.
Prepare for attack.
Prepare for what attack?
I thought he said that
nothing could survive
in these frigid waters.
[suspenseful music playing]
Incoming object
has locked on to our position.
Closing at 600 meters.
Commence vertical dive,
on the double.
-Did you see that?
-Sure did.
That was definitely
no submarine.
It was alive.
It looked like a giant squid.
There's ice above us
and squids below us.
Could this be any worse?
[beeping]
[explosion]
That sideswiped us, but why?
Oh.
An indigenous creature
might come to believe
that we are invading
its territory.
It's turned around on
the starboard side.
Evasive action, do it now.
Engines are at full speed.
Turn her hard to port.
No good,
it'll hit us head on.
All hands brace for collision.
-[gasps]
-What is going on?
-It can't be.
-A shellfish.
This one existed
millions of years ago.
And it's still alive.
That thing is crushing us.
Our weapons are useless
against it.
[Nemo] With it
attached to the hull? Yes.
[sonar] It's even cracking
the reinforced textite.
Close the armored shutters.
Aye.
Come on, go.
Of course.
What if we directed
a high voltage current
through the ship's hull,
captain?
[both] Hey, the kid might have
something there.
First Officer, try it.
Aye.
Look at this. Do you see?
It's the battle of
the Nautiluses.
What an awful mess.
-Increase the voltage.
-Aye.
[both]
Let go!
[Nemo] Engines to full power,
begin vertical climb.
We're under an iceberg.
I know that.
We are going to ram into it.
Aye, aye.
It's holding tight,
amazing power.
I'd rather be fighting
the Garfish.
The bridge can't withstand
this kind of pressure.
Hard to starboard
with heading 107.
But, Captain,
that's back toward the volcano.
I know that, 107.
Aye.
[dramatic music playing]
Incredible.
Steady, steer us
into the crater.
Captain, the heat
will destroy the ship, sir.
We are out of options
at this point.
We must do this.
Purge all compressed air
from tanks one through thirty.
Purge is complete.
We're going in.
-Status?
-It's still holding on.
Steer the ship
as close as you can
to the crater, Helmsman.
Aye, aye.
That thing has nerves of steel.
External temperature
is approaching 1,200 degrees.
[King panting]
It feels like
we're burning up here.
The South Pole
needs to make up its mind.
How long can it stay alive
in this heat?
It's a monster.
We can't take
much more of this, sir.
Captain?
If it is alive,
it will have to let go.
[screeching]
-We did it.
-[Jean cheering]
[monster screeching raspily]
We were lucky.
So was it.
It came close to being
dropped into hot lava.
I think it made
the right choice.
I can't believe such a thing
still exists.
It seems to me that nature
often keeps
many of its secrets
from mankind.
Bearing 110, take her to base.
Aye.
[dramatic music playing]
I've never seen a passage
like that under the ocean.
We keep secrets from mankind,
too, Jean.
[awes in fascination]
We're almost through.
Open sea is dead ahead.
[dramatic music playing]
I don't understand
how we can be under the land
and in the sea
at the same time.
This is the place
on the map, Jean.
Huh? Oh!
This is our cavern base.
Ah.
[singing in Japanese]